AND CRIES FOR JUSTICE
REVERBERATE, AS A MAN SAID TO
HAVE WHITE SUPREMACIST MOTIVES
IS CHARGED IN THE SHOOTING OF
NINE CHURCH-GOERS IN CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, AIRSTRIKES CONTINUE
IN YEMEN WHILE PEACE TALKS IN
GENEVA COLLAPSE, AN ON-THE-
GROUND LOOK AT THE CIVIL WAR'S
DEVASTATING TOLL ON DAILY LIFE.
IT IS NOW THE PRIORITY.
IN ADDITION TO AIR STRIKES,
SAUDI ARABIA HAS IMPOSED A
BLOCKADE ON THE COUNTRY AND
SURPRISE IS RUNNING DESPERATELY
SHORT.
>> Wooduff: AND IT'S FRIDAY,
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE, TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
PLUS, OUR CUBAN EVOLUTION SERIES
CONTINUES.
AN ORGANIC FOOD REVOLUTION THAT
TOOK ROOT OUT OF NECESSITY.
AND WHAT THE U.S. CAN LEARN FROM
THEIR STRUGGLE TO MAKE THE MOST
OF EVERY RESOURCE.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL HAPPEN
IF THE AMERICAN AGRICULTURE
COMPANIES GET IN HERE, AND ARE
ABLE TO SELL THEIR PRODUCTS, IF
IT'S GOING TO CONTINUE LIKE THIS
ORGANIC MODEL, OR IF IT'S GOING
TO LOOK A LOT MORE LIKE WHAT WE
SEE IN THE U.S.
>> Wooduff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Wooduff: SHOCK WAVES FROM THE
MURDERS AT A BLACK CHURCH KEPT
RIPPLING ACROSS CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA, AND THE NATION
TODAY.
A POLICE AFFIDAVIT SAID THE
GUNMAN SHOT HIS VICTIMS MULTIPLE
TIMES, BUT SEVERAL TEARFUL
FAMILY MEMBERS OFFERED HIM
FORGIVENESS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL THROUGH THE
DAY, A MEMORIAL OF FLOWERS,
BALLOONS AND NOTES KEPT GROWING
OUTSIDE EMANUEL AFRICAN
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
PEOPLE STREAMED TO THE SITE,
POPULARLY KNOWN AS MOTHER
EMANUEL, MANY OF THEM STILL
SHAKEN BY TUESDAY NIGHT'S MASS
SHOOTING.
>> THE OLDEST LADY WHO GOT
KILLED IN THIS CHURCH WAS MY
MOMMA'S GIRLFRIEND.
THEY WERE IN THE CHOIR TOGETHER.
THIS HURTS A LOT BECAUSE THIS IS
THE FAMILY CHURCH.
I CAN'T TAKE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: CHARLESTON'S
MAYOR OF 40 YEARS, JOSEPH RILEY,
WAS ALSO THERE, CONDEMNING THE
KILLINGS AND DEFENDING HIS CITY.
>> THIS HATEFUL PERSON CAME INTO
THIS COMMUNITY WITH SOME CRAZY
IDEA THAT HE WOULD BE ABLE TO
DIVIDE AND ALL HE DID WAS MAKE
US MORE UNITED AND MAKE US LOVE
EACH OTHER EVEN MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CITY PLANS A
VIGIL TONIGHT FOR THE VICTIMS.
IN ALL, NINE PEOPLE DIED IN THE
ATTACK.
AMONG THEM, THE CHURCH'S
MINISTER CLEMENTA PINCKNEY, WHO
WAS ALSO A STATE SENATOR.
THE ACCUSED GUNMAN, 21-YEAR-OLD
DYLANN ROOF, WAS CAUGHT
YESTERDAY IN SHELBY, NORTH
CAROLINA, MORE THAN 200 LESMI
AWAY, AND FLOWN BACK TO
CHARLESTON.
HE APPEARED TODAY VIA VIDEO LINK
AT A BOND HEARING, ON NINE
COUNTS OF MURDER AND WEAPONS
CHARGES.
SOME OF THE VICTIMS' RELATIVES
MADE TEARFUL STATEMENTS OF GRIEF
AND FORGIVENESS.
>> YOU TOOK SOMETHING REALLY
PRECIOUS AWAY FROM ME.
I WILL NEVER TALK TO HER EVER
AGAIN.
I WILL NEVER BE ABLE TO HOLD HER
BUT I FORGIVE YOU AND HAVE MERCY
ON YOUR SOUL.
IT HURTS ME, IT HURTS A LOT OF
PEOPLE BUT GOD FORGIVE YOU AND I
FORGIVE YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: ROOF SAID
LITTLE, AND WAS ORDERED HELD ON
$1 MILLION BOND.
AFTERWARD, SOLICITOR SCARLETT
WILSON PROMISED A VIGOROUS
PROSECUTION.
>> MY MISSION IS TO SERVE
JUSTICE FOR THIS COMMUNITY AND
ESPECIALLY FOR THE VICTIMS IN
THIS CASE.
AND WE WILL DO IT EFFICIENTLY
AND EFFECTIVELY AND WE'LL DO IT
BEHIND THE SCENES SO THAT WE CAN
BE SUCCESSFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS WIDELY
REPORTED THAT ROOF CONFESSED TO
THE SHOOTINGS, AND THAT HE HOPED
TO TRIGGER A RACE WAR.
A ONE-TIME FRIEND, JOEY MEEK,
SAYS HE TALKED TO ROOF JUST
RECENTLY.
>> IT WAS A RACE THING, BECAUSE
HE HAD TOLD ME THAT THE BLACK
PEOPLE WAS TAKING OVER THE
COUNTRY AND THAT HE WANTED IT TO
BE SEGREGATION, THAT WHITE ON
BLACK.
OR, WHITE WITH THE WHITE, BLACK
WITH THE BLACK.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN SO, SOUTH
CAROLINA SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM,
A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE, JOINED VISITORS TO
THE CHURCH, STILL STRUGGLING TO
UNDERSTAND.
>> CRAZY PEOPLE ABOUND.
THAT'S WHAT THIS GUY WAS, A
CRAZY GUY.
NOT IN TERMS OF BEING MENTALLY
INCOMPETENT, JUST BEING MEAN AND
HATEFUL AND CRAZY.
I CAN'T EXPLAIIT.N
THERE'S JUST NO WAY I CAN
EXPLAIN WHAT WOULD MOTIVATE A
PERSON TO DO THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHATEVER THE
EXPLANATION, SOUTH CAROLINA
GOVERNOR NIKKI HALEY TOLD N.B.C.
TODAY THERE'S ONLY ONE WAY THE
CASE CAN END.
>> THESE ARE NINE FAMILIES THAT
ARE STRUGGLING.
THIS IS A STATE THAT IS HURT BY
THE FACT THAT NINE PEOPLE WERE
INNOCENTLY KILLED.
WE WILL ABSOLUTELY WANT HIM TO
HAVE THE DEATH PENALTY.
>> Sreenivasan: FAR FROM
CHARLESTON, THE TRAGEDY SPARKED
AN OUTPOURING OF SYMPATHY, AND
CRIES FOR ACTION, FROM AROUND
THE COUNTRY.
IN PHILADELPHIA LAST NIGHT,
CHRISTIANS, JEWAND S MUSLIMS
JOINED FOR AN INTERFAITH
SERVICE.
>> TO ME IT'S A SENSELESS CRIME
THAT NEEDS TO END.
AT THIS POINT, THIS HAS TO END.
WE NEED TO TAKE THIS AS A POINT
TO WALK MORE IN LOVE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND LESS IN HATE, BUT
NOT JUST TO SIT IDLY BY ON THE
SIDEWALK AND SIDELINE AND JUST
BE SAD ABOUT IT.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN COMEDIAN
AND "DAILY SHOW" HOST JOHN
STEWART PUSHED JOKES ASIDE.
>> I HONESTLY HAVE NOTHING OTHER
THAN JUST SADNESS ONCE AGAIN
THAT WE HAVE TO PEER ONCE AGAIN
INTO THE ABYSS OF THE DEPRAVED
VIOLENCE THAT WE DO TO EACH
OTHER IN THE NEXUS OF A JUST
GAPING RACIAL WOUND THAT WILL
NOT HEAL, YET WE PRETEND DOESN'T
EXIST.
>> Sreenivasan: BACK IN SOUTH
CAROLINA TODAY, THE N.A.A.C.P.
CALLED FOR THE CONFEDERATE FLAG
TO BE REMOVED FROM THE STATE
CAPITOL GROUNDS IN COLUMBIA, A
LONG-STANDING ISSUE IN THE
STATE.
FOR P.B.S. NEWSHOUR, I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> Wooduff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TWEETED TODAY THAT "THE DECENCY
AND GOODNESS OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE SHINES THROUGH" IN THE
VICTIMS' FAMILIES.
AND LATER, HE SAID HE HAS FAITH
THE NATION WILL "EVENTUALLY DO
THE RIGHT THING" AND PASS GUN
CONTROL LEGISLATION.
IN THE DAY'S OTHER NEWS,
PROSECUTORS IN THE 2012 COLORADO
MASS SHOOTING CASE WRAPPED UP 8
WEEKS OF TESTIMONY AGAINSJAMT ES
HOLMES.
HE'S CHARGED WITH KILLING 12
PEOPLE AND WOUNDING 70 AT A
MIDNIGHT MOVIE SHOWING.
HE'S PLEADED NOT GUILTY BY
REASON OF INSANITY.
THE DEFENSE CASE BEGINS NEXT
THURSDAY.
MEDIUM AND HEAVY-DUTY TRUCKS
WILL HAVE TO GET MORE FUEL
EFFICIENT AND CUT CARBON DIOXIDE
EMISSIONS FURTHER, UNDER NEW
RULES PROPOSED BY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY MADE THE NEW REGULATIONS
PUBLIC TODAY.
THEY CALL FOR A 24% CUT IN
EMISSIONS FOR TRUCKS, BUSES,
TRACTOR-TRAILERS AND VANS, BY
2027.
THOSE VEHICLES ACCOUNT FOR ONE-
FIFTH OF U.S. GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS.
ACTS OF TERROR SPIKED LAST YEAR,
AS ISLAMIST MILITAS STNTEPPED UP
THEIR DEADLY CAMPAIGNS.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT SAYS
ATTACKS SHOT UP 35%, LED BY A
SPURT OF VIOLENCE IN IRAQ,
AFGHANISTAN AND NIGERIA.
DEATHS FROM SUCH ATTACKS ROSE
ROUGHLY 80 PERCENT, TO ALMOST
33,000.
BUT THE DEPARTMENT'S COORDINATOR
FOR COUNTERRORISM SAYS THAT DOES
NOT MEAN U.S. POLICIES HAVE
FAILED.
>> IT'S ONE WAY BUT NOT THE SOLE
WAY OF ADDRESSING THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR EFFORTS.
I THINK BY ANY STANDARD THAT YOU
SET YOU CAN LOOK AT THAT AND SAY
THAT WE'VE MADE PROGRESS.
HAVE WE DONE EVERYTHING THAT CAN
BE DONE IN ORDER TO PUSH BACK ON
YOU KNOW THESE GROUPS, CLEARLY
NOT.
>> Wooduff: THE REPORT CITES THE
"ISLAMIC STATE" GROUP
IN IRAQ AND SYRIA AND "BOKO
HARAM" IN NIGERIA AS THE MAIN
FORCES DRIVING TERROR ATTACKS.
GREECE EDGED EVER CLOSER TO
DEFAULT TODAY, WITH STILL NO
SIGN OF ANY DEAL FOR A NEW
BAILOUT.
EUROZONE LEADERS NOW PLAN AN
EMERGENCY SUMMIT ON MONDAY, IN A
BID TO BREAK THE
DEADLOCK.
MEANWHILE, GREEK BANKS ARE
HEMORRHAGING CASH.
PAUL MASON, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, FILED THIS
REPORT.
>> Reporter: THE GREEK SYSTEM
MADE IT TO CLOSING TIL TIME ON
FRIDAY JUST.
THE BANK REPORTED THREE BILLION
EUROS TO THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL
BANK THIS AFTERNOON AFTER 1.1
BILLION ON WEDNESDAY.
IN THE LAST FIVE DAYS AROUND THE
SAME AMOUNT HAS BEEN WITHDRAWN.
PEOPLE HERE REALIZE FINALLY THAT
NEXT MONDAY IS THE CRUNCH.
IF THERE'S NO DEAL BETWEEN
GREECE AND ITS LENDERS, THE
COUNTRY WILL MOST LIKELY DEFAULT
ON THOSE DEBTS.
AFTER THAT THE CENTRAL BANK
COMES A SLUMP AND POSSIBLE EXIT
FROM THE EUROZONE.
PRIME MINISTER WAS IN RUSSIA
TODAY.
GREECE HAS REMAINED IN NATO IT
FEELS ABANDONED BY ITS ALLIES BY
THE DEAL JUST SIGNED IS KEEPING
DIPLOMATIC OPTIONS OPEN.
>> LET'S BE SERIOUS.
THE SO-CALLED GREEK PROBLEM IS
NOT A GREEK PROBLEM BUT
EUROPEAN.
THE NAME OF THE PROBLEM IS NOT
GREEN IT'S EUROZONE AND IT
CONCERNS ITS STRUCTURE.
>> Reporter: VLADIMIR PUTIN
THE DIPLOMATIC AIM IS DIVIDED
THE SATISFACTION DID NOT NEED TO
BE FORCED.
FLOURIS
>> Wooduff: GREECE FACES A HUGE
DEBT REPAYMENT AT MONTH'S END,
BUT DOESN'T HAVE THE FUNDS.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE NOW
SAYS REPEALING THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT INCREASE THE NUMBER OF
AMERICANS WITHOUT HEALTH
INSURANCE BY 24 MILLION.
THE ANALYSIS ALSO SAYS REPEAL
WOULD BOOST THE ECONOMY, AT
LEAST FOR A TIME.
BUT, IT PROJECTED IT WOULD
ULTIMATELY ADD NEARLY $140
BILLION TO THE DEFICIT.
WALL STREET HAD A DEFICIT OF
CONFIDENCE TODAY, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 100
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 18,014.
THE NASDAQ FELL 16 POINTS, AND
THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED 11.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
S-AND-P ROSE MORE THAN HALF A
PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ ROSE A FULL PERCENT.
AND CABLE T.V. PIONEER RALPH
ROBERTS HAS DIED.
STARTING IN THE 1960'S, HE BUILT
COMCAST INTO THE NATION'S
GE
CABLE T.V. AND HOME INTERNET
SERVICE.
TODAY, IT ALSO OWNS THE N.B.C.
NETWORK, UNIVERSAL PICTURES AND
THEME PARKS.
RALPH ROBERTS WAS 95 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
ONTHE GROUND IN YEMEN AS A
PROXY WAR RAGES ON;
VLADIMIR PUTIN TELLS CHARLIE
ROSE THAT KIEV IS TO BLAME FOR
UNREST IN EASTERN UKRAINE;
ENERGY SECRETARY ERNEST MONIZ ON
NUCLEAR NEGOTIATIONS;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
AND HOW NECESSITY WAS THE MOTHER
OF ORGANIC INVENTION ON CUBAN
FARMS.
>> Wooduff: TODAY IN GENEVA,
SWITZERLAND, TALKS ENDED
BETWEEN YEMEN'S EXILED
GOVERNMENT AND HOUTHI SHIITE
REBELS WHO CONTROL THE COUNTRY'S
CAPITAL.
THE NEGOTIATIONS FAILED TO REACH
EVEN A TEMPORARY CEASEFIRE.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A CLOSE AT THE
PERSONAL COST OF THE CONFLICT.
BUT FIRST A BIT OF BACKROUND:
THE LATEST TURMOIL CAN BE TRACED
BACK FOUR YEARS TO THE ARAB
SPRING, WHEN AN UPRISING
ULTIMATELY LED TO THE OUSTING OF
THEN PRESIDENT ALI ABDULLAH
SALEH.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, HOUTHI
REBELS, WITH THE HELP OF
SOLDIERS STILL LOYAL TO THE
FORMER LEADER, FORCED YEMEN'S
CURRENT PRESIDENT, ABED RABDO
MANSOUR HADI, INTO EXILE.
THAT SPARKED AN INTERNATIONAL
MILITARY RESPONSE LED BY SAUDI
ARABIA.
THE SUBSEQUENT FIGHTING HAS
KILLED MORE THAN ONE-THOUSAND
CIVILIANS AND DISPLACED MORE
THAN ONE MILLION.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JANE FERGUSON TRAVELED TO YEMEN
TO SEE FIRSTHAND WHAT LIFE IS
LIKE IN REBEL-CONTROLLED
TERRITORY.
>> Reporter: THESE REBELS
RULED MUCH OF YEMEN MARCHING
THROUGH THE STREETS OF THE
CAPITOL CENTER IN A
SHOW STRENGTH AND DEFIANCE.
THE G THE STREETS
AND THE POLITICIANS CONTROL THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE U.S. AND SAUDI ARABIA
ACCUSED IRAN OF BACKING THE
HOUTHIS.
THIS WAS SAUDI ARABIA'S ANSWER
TO THAT RELATIONSHIP.
INTENSIVE AIR STRIKES HAVE
POUNDED THE COUNTRY FOR THREE
MONTHS.
THIS IS WHERE THE ROCK OTHERS
ARE.
WE WERE AMONG THE FIRST RUSSIAN
JOURNALISTS TO ENTER WHEN THE
BOMBARDMENT BEGAN IN MARCH.
WE FOUND NEIGHBORHOODS DESTROYED
AND PEOPLE TERRIFIED.
>> ARE THERE SAUDI PLANES HERE
THEY SAY YES ALL THE TIME.
ALL THE PLANES ARE SAUDI.
IT IS DANGEROUS HERE.
LET'S MOVE ON THEN.
>> Reporter: SURVIVAL IS NOW
THE PREERT.
IN ADDITION TO AIR STRIKES SAUDI
ARABIA HAS IMPOSED A BLOCK
IATED ON THE COUNTRY AND
SUPPLIES A RUNNING DESPERATELY
SHORT.
CLEAN WATER IS RATIONED TO
FAMILIES BUT THERE ISN'T ENOUGH.
THIS WATER STATION WAS PAID FOR
BY A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN AS
CHARITY.
PILES OF GOS GASH GOSH WHIC GART
BEEN COLLECTED FOR MONTHS.
PEOPLE ARE SLEEP IN THEIR CARS
FOR DAYS WAITING TO GET FUEL.
AHMED HAS GIVEN UP TRYING.
AS A CAB DRIVER THAT MEANS NO
INCOME FOR HIS FAMILY.
WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU HAD
FUEL.
>> I NT TWEO THE GAS STATION I
STAYED FOR TWO DAYS.
>> Reporter: OH MY GOODNESS.
HOW OFTEN DO YOU GET TO WORK
NOWADAYS.
>> I JUST STAY HERE.
>> Reporter: SINCE WHEN?
>> SINCE THREE MONTHS.
>> Reporter: YEMEN'S RICH
HISTORY HAS NOT BEEN SMAIRD FROM
THE VIE -- SPARED FROM THE
VIOLENCE.
THE CITY'S THOUSANDS OF YEARS
OLD AND A HERITAGE SITE HAS BEEN
DAMAGED.
THESE BUILDINGS WERE BROUGHT
DOWN DURING BOMBARDMENT CAUSING
AN INTERNATIONAL OUTCRY.
>> THIS IS A PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: AFTER YEARS OF
WORKING TO SAFEGUARD THE OLD
CITY, HE SAYS THE SITE IS UNDER
THREAT.
>> THERE ARE DAMAGE TO THE
HOUSES.
BECAUSE IT'S OURS.
THIS MATERIAL, YOU SEE, THAT'S
IT.
>> Reporter: OLD BRICKS,
ANCIENT BRICKS.
>> YES.
BEFORE THIS CRISES, THE 120EU
WAS ALIVE -- THE CITY WAS ALIVE
FROM TOISMUR AND THAT MEANS THEY
WOULD SPEND MONEY FOR THEIR
HOUSES.
BUT NOW, THEY ARE SUFFERING FOR
THE FOOD.
THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT SOMETHING
FOR THE HOUSES TO PAY SOMETHING
FOR THE HOUSES.
>> Reporter: A DECEMBER TO GO
GROWS -- DECEMBER T DECEMBER DE.
CAN YOU TELL US WHY YOU SAY
THESE ATTACKS ARE DONE BY BOTH
SAUDI ARABIA AND THE UNITED
STATES?
>> SAUDI ARABIA CANNOT DO
ANYTHING IN THE MIDDLE EAST
WITHOUT A GREEN LIGHT FROM THE
UNITED STATES.
THE SAUDIS AND THE AMERICANS
HAVE BOTH ADMITTED THEY DEPORT
THEM MILITARILY, LOGISTICALLY
AND POLITICALLY.
>> Reporter: THE WHITEHOUSE
SAID AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
BOMBARDMENT THAT THEY WERE
HELPING THE SAUDIS.
MOST YEMENIS IN THE STREETS IS
AWARE OF THIS.
THERE IS GROWING ANGER AT
AMERICA.
>> OUR PEOPLE ARE ANGER.
>> Reporter: THEY'RE ANGRY AT
THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE.
>> BECAUSE THEY ARE NOT DOING
ANYTHING FOR OUR PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: DO THEY THINK
THAT THE UNITED STATES COULD
TELL SAUDI ARABIA TO STOP IT.
>> YES.
THEY ARE SUPPORTING THEM.
BY GUNS, BY MONEY.
>> Reporter: NOT EVERYONE
SUPPORTS THE HOUTHI.
THOSE WHO HOPE THE EXILED
PRESIDENT WILL RETURN ARE EITHER
TOO FRIGHTENED TO SPEAK OR HAVE
LEFT THE CITY.
THE HOUTHIS ARE ACCUSED OF
ARRESTING AND JAILING PEOPLE
OPPOSED TO THEM.
HOSTILITY BETWEEN THE HOUTHIS
AND THE SAUDIS IS NOT NEW.
THE HOUTHIS ARE FOLLOWERS OF THE
SHI'ITE SECT OF THE LAND.
SAUDI ARABIA HAS ACCUSED THE
HOUTHIS FOR YEARS OF BEING
PUPPETS OF SHI'ITE IRAN ON THEIR
DOORSTEP.
BUT SENIOR HOUTHI LEADER DENIES
ANY RELATIONSHIP WITH IRAN.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANY LINKS
WHATSOEVER WITH IRAN AND IRAN
DOESN'T HAVE ANY INFLUENCE ON US
HE SAYS.
WE ARE COMPLETELY INDEPENDENT
AND SEPARATE.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE REST
OF THE WORLD MAY SEE THE
CONFLICT HERE IN YEMEN FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE OF POWER, SAUDI
ARABIA, THOSE DON'T REALLY
RELATE TO THOSE SECTARIAN TERMS.
IS IT REALLY A HISTORY OF
SECTARIAN.
PEOPLE SAY THEY ARE MORE LOYAL
TO THEIR TRIBES THAN RELIGIOUS
SECTS.
THE WORRIES IS SECTARIANISM
COULD BE BROUGHT INTO YEMEN AS A
RESULT OF THE REGION-WIDE
STRUGGLE.
>> IN THE OLD CITY WE MET
RELIGIOUS TEACHER AT THE GRAND
MOSQUE.
COUNTRY LEADERS CREATE THESE
PROBLEMS TO STAY IN POWER, HE
SAYS.
THOSE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THESE
PROBLEMS, THEY'RE NOT SUPPORTING
SUNNI OR SHI'A, THEY JUST WANT
POWER.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF MONEY AND
THEY WANT TO CONTROL THE WHOLE
COUNTRY.
WHILE THEY ARE STRONGLY
ANTI-AMERICAN THEY'RE MORE
ANTI-AL-QAEDA.
AL-QAEDA IN THE ARABIAN PENSE
LAW AND THE U.S. -- PENINSULA
AND THE U.S. HAS BEEN CONDUCTING
DRONES AGAINST THEM FOR YES.AR
HE SAYS MANY HERE ARE CONFUSED
BY THE U.S.'S FOREIGN POLICY.
>> UNITED STATES ARE SUPPORTING
THE ENEMIES.
THEY ARE SUPPORTING AL SIDE.
THE--AL-QAEDA.
IT'S THE FACTORY OF FACTORY OF
AL-QAEDA AND THE UNITED STATES
UNFORTUNATELY IS SUPPORTING
SAUDI ARABIA.
SO THEY ARE SUPPORTING THEIR
ENEMY.
>> Reporter: THIS KIND OF
CHAOS HAS YEMEN WORRIED.
IT'S THE BATTLE GROUND BETWEEN
AMERICA AND SAUDI ARABIA ON ONE
SIDE AND IRAN ON THE OTHER.
IT'S A FIGHT THAT IS BRINGING
YEMEN TO ITS KNEES AND THREATENS
TO DESTROYS EVERYTHING IN ITS
PATH.
FOR PBS NEWSHOUR, THIS IS JANE
FERGUSON, YEMEN.
>> Wooduff: RUSSIA'S PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN TODAY BLAMED NATO
EXPANSION AND THE UNITED STATES
FOR FANNING THE FLAMES OF
CONFLICT IN UKRAINE.
HE DID THAT AT AN INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC CONFERENCE HELD IN ST.
PETERSBURG.
PART OF THE PROGRAM FEATURED AN
INTERVIEW WITH PUTIN BY PBS' OWN
CHARLIE ROSE.
>> Wooduff: SEATED IN FRONT OF
AN AUDIENCE OF BUSINESS PEOPLE,
POLITICAL LEADERS AND
JOURNALISTS, THE RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT BLAMED THE WEST FOR
THE CONFLICT IN UKRAINE.
>> HELP US UNDERSTAND AS YOU SEE
IT, WHERE ARE WE HOW DID WE GET
THERE, AND WHERE DO WE GO FROM
HERE?
HERE? >> (translated
): WHY IS THERE
>> (translated): WHY IS
THERE A CRISIS IN UKRAINE?
A CRISIS IN UKRAINE?
I WAS QUITE CONFIDENT AFTER THE
BIPOLAR SYSTEM WENT INTO
OBLIVION AND AFTER THE COLLAPSE
OF THE SOVIET UNION CERTAIN
WESTERN PARTNERS OF OURS
PARTICULARLY THE UNITED STATES
WERE IN A KIND OF EUPHORIA, AND
INSTEAD OF TRYING TO CREATE A
NEW SITUATION, GOOD NEIGHBORS
PARTNER RELATIONS THEY STARTED
TO EXPLORE NEW FREE,
GEOPOLITICAL SPACES, WELL FREE
IN THEIR VIEW. AND THAT IS WHY
WE ARE WITNESSING EXPANSION NATO
EASTWARDS.
>> Wooduff: I SPOKE TO CHARLIE
ROSE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HIS
QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION WITH
PRESIDENT PUTIN.
>> Wooduff: CHARLIE, YOU PRESSED
HIM ABOUT WHAT HE THINKS UKRAINE
NEEDS TO DO DEFUSE THE
SITUATION.
WHAT DID HE SAY?
>> HE SAID THE PEOPLE IN KIEV
NEED TO TALK TO THE SEPARATISTS.
THAT IS NOT A NEW IDEA FROM HIM.
HE HAS ALWAYS SAID THAT.
THAT THEY HAVE TO HAVE A REAL
CONVERSATION WITH THE
SEPARATISTS.
AND I RAISED THE QUESTION OF IF
HE WAS HELPING THE SITUATION BY
SUPPLYING ARMS TO THE
SEPARATISTS.
AND BY THE ENGAGEMENT OF RUSSIAN
SOLDIERS AND OTHER CONNECTIONS
RUSSIA HAS TO THIS.
I THINK THAT PUTIN HAS A REAL
FEAR ABOUT NATO BEING ON HIS
BORDERS.
HE'S ALWAYS HAD THAT.
THEY HAD THAT WITH RESPECT TO
GEORGIA AND WITH RESPECT TO
UKRAINE, PROBABLY WORRIES THAT
IF A GOVERNMENT IN UKRAINE WAS
LEANING EAST, I MEAN LEANING TO
THE WEST, IT MIGHT ENTERTAIN THE
IDEA OF NATO MEMBERSHIP WHICH HE
REALLY, REALLY DISLIKES THE
MOST.
I THINK THE HEADLINE FROM THIS,
HE REALLY BELIEVES THAT THE
UNITED STATES AND RUSSIA SHOULD
BE TALKING.
THAT THEY OUGHT TO BE HAVING A
DIALOG ABOUT UKRAINE AND OTHER
ISSUES.
>> Wooduff: WHAT DID HE SAY ABUT
THAT, YOU ASKED HIM ABOUT THE
INCREASING TENSION IN THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE WEST
AND RUSSIA.
WHAT DID HE SAY ABOUT THAT?
>> MOST OF HIS ANIMUS IS TOWARD
THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV, AS YOU
KNOW LIKE HE HAS SAID I PREVIOUS
TIMES THAT HE THINKS THAT THE
DEMONSTRATIONS THAT OVERTHREW
THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE WHO
FLED TO RUSSIA WAS A SPONSORED
IN PART BY THE WEST, THE USA AND
THE C.I.A.
I THINK THAT MOST PEOPLE BELIEVE
THAT RUSSIA BECAUSE OF IT'S--
BECAUSE IT WANTS TO REGAIN SOME
OF ITS MILITARY STRENGTH AND
THEY DO RATTLE THE SABER FOR A
LITTLE BIT WANTS TO BE A PLAYER.
THEY WANT TO RESPECTED WHICH I
RAISED WITH HIM AND HE SAID WELL
WE ARE RESPECTED, EVERYONE WANTS
TO BE RESPECTED.
BUT THERE IS DEEP WITHIN HIM,
THE SENSE THAT AFTER THE
COLLAPSE IN '91 THAT RUSSIA
WANTS TO RETAIN ITS STATUS AS A
BIG TIME PLAYER IN THE WORLD.
>> Wooduff: WOULD YOU SAY THAT
BEING RESPECTED OR NOT BEING
RESPECTED IS A NEW CONCERN?
IS A NEW POSTURE ON HIS PART?
>> THE FACT THAT HE SAID IT THE
WAY HE DID SUGGESTS THAT HE
THINKS ABOUT IT.
I THINK THAT PRIDE FOR HIM AND
FOR OTHER PEOPLE, YOU KNOW
RUSSIA WAS A SUPERPOWER AND THEN
WITH THE COLLAPSE OF THE SOVIET
ION UNALL OF A SUDDEN THEY WERE
NOT A SUPER POWER AND THEIR
ECONOMY WAS IN TERRIBLE SHAPE
AND THEY HAD A WHOLE RANGE OF
CATACLYSMIC CHANGES IN THEIR
ECONOMY, AND STATE OWNERSHIP
ALL KINDS OF OLIGARCHS CAME
FORWARD, AND RUSSIA HAS BEEN
TRYING TO RECAPTURE SOME OF ITS
GLOBAL PRESENCE.
HE CARES ABOUT BORDERS, HE CARES
ABOUT RESPECT AND HE CARES ABOUT
CONVERSATIONS, HE WANTS TO BE
TALKED TO, HE WANTS TO BE
CONSIDERED A PRIMARY PLAYER.
>> Wooduff: CHARLIE ROSE TALKING
TO US FROM ST. PETERSBURG, THE
SITE OF THIS ECONOMIC SUMMIT,
CHARLIE THANK YOU AND TRAVEL
SAFELY.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Wooduff: THE NEGOTIATIONS
OVER IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM ARE
COMING DOWN TO THE WIRE, WITH
UNRESOLVED ISSUES STILL HANGING
OVER THE PROCESS.
GWEN IFILL HAS OUR UPDATE, AND A
NEWSMAKER INTERVIEW WITH THE
SECRETARY OF ENERGY, ERNEST
MONIZ.
>> Ifill: THE FINAL DEADLINE IN
THE IRAN TALKS ARRIVES IN LESS
THAN TWO WEEKS, AND, ACCORDING
TO SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY, A PRINCIPLE HURDLE
REMAINS: ACCESS TO IRAN'S
NUCLEAR-RELATED MILITARY
ACTIVITIES.
>> ACCESS IS VERY, VERY
CRITICAL.
IT'S ALWAYS BEEN CRITICAL FROM
DAY ONE.
IT REMAINS CRITICAL.
>> Ifill: KERRY SPOKE TUESDAY
FROM BOSTON, WHERE HE WAS
RECOVERING FROM SURGERY TO
REPAIR A BADLY BROKEN LEG.
>> IT'S CRITICAL TO US TO KNOW
THAT GOING FORWARD, THOSE
ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN STOPPED,
AND THAT WE CAN ACCOUNT FOR THAT
IN A LEGITIMATE WAY.
THAT CLEARLY IS ONE OF THE
REQUIREMENTS IN OUR JUDGMENT FOR
WHAT HAS TO BE ACHIEVED IN ORDER
TO HAVE A LEGITIMATE AGREEMENT.
>> Ifill: NEGOTIATIONS HAVE
CONTINUED SINCE A POLITICAL
FRAMEWORK WAS AGREED UPON IN
EARLY APRIL.
INTERPRETATIONS OF THAT DEAL
DIVERGED SHARPLY BETWEEN THE
IRANIANS AND THE SO-CALLED "P-
FIVE-PLUS-ONE," THE U.S., UNITED
KINGDOM, FRANCE, RUSSIA, CHINA
PLUS GERMANY.
BUT TEHRAN HAS STAKED OUT A FIRM
POSITION AGAINST ALLOWGIN
INSPECTIONS OF ITS MILITARY
SITES OR INTERVIEWS WITH ITS
NUCLEAR SCIENTISTS, BEGINNING
WITH THE SUPREME LEADER.
WITH THE SUPREME LEADER. >> (
translated): WE HAVE
SAID
>> (translated): WE
HAVE SAID THAT WE WILL NOT ALLOW
ANY
THAT WE WILL NOT ALLOW ANY
INSPECTIONS OF IRANIAN MILITARY
CENTERS BY ANY FOREIGNERS TO
TAKE PLACE.
THEY SAY WE SHOULD LET THEM
INTERVIEW OUR NUCLEAR
SCIENTISTS.
I WILL NOT ALLOW THIS.
>> Ifill: LAST SATURDAY, IRAN'S
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI, WHO IS
SUBORDINATE TO THE SUPREME
LEADER, SAID THE NEGOTIATING
PROCESS RUNS THE RISK OF FALLING
APART.
APART. >> (translated
): IF THE OTHER
>> (translated): IF THE
OTHER SIDE CAN HONOR THE
PREVIOUSLY
SIDE CAN HONOR THE PREVIOUSLY
REACHED FRAMEWORK, INSTEAD OF
INCESSANTLY POSING NEW DEMANDS,
I THINK WE CAN ACHIEVE A DEAL.
BUT IF THE NEGOTIATION IS TURNED
INTO AN ENDLESS BARGAINING, THIS
WILL BE VERY LIKELY TO POSTPONE
THE NEGOTIATION PROGRESS.
>> Ifill: THE AMERICAN POINT MAN
ON THE NUCLEAR SCIENCE INVOLVED
IS ENERGY SECRETARY ERNEST
MONIZ.
HE'S A TRAINED PHYSICIST
WHO'S BEEN DEEPLY INVOLVED IN
THE NEGOTIATING PROCESS, AS IT
HURTLES TOWARD THE JUNE 30
DEADLINE.
I SPOKE TO HIM YESTERDAY.
SECRETARY MONIZ, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
WE KNOW ABOUT THIS JUNE 30TH
DEADLINE, IS IT A REAL DEADLINE.
>> WELL, WE CERTAINLY WANT TO
MEET IT.
WE HAVE LOTS OF REASONS TO DO
SO, INCLUDING OF COURSE OUR
SUBSEQUENT INTERACTIONS WITH THE
CONGRESS REPORTING TO THEM.
SO WE'RE PUSHING HARD.
WE'VE HAD SIX TECHNICAL MEETINGS
SINCE THEN.
WE'VE HAD SEVERAL POLITICAL
LEVEL MEETINGS.
SECRETARY KERRY AND I WERE IN
GENEVA A COUPLE WEEKS AGO, JUST
PRIOR TO HIS UNFORTUNATE BIKE
ACCIDENT AND WE EXPECT TO BE
BACK SOON TO TRY TO FINISH THE
DEAL.
>> Ifill: WHAT'S THE DEAL, IS
IT A DEAL TO GET A DEAL OR A
DEAL TO BUTTON THIS WHOLE THING
UP.
>> OH NO, WE ARE AIMING TO
COMPLETE THE DEAL, TO SEE TO IT
THAT WE AND OUR PARTNERS P FIVE
PLUS ONE WILL HAVE A DEAL WHERE
WE WILL HAVE CONFIDENCE THAT
IRAN'S PROGRAM IS PEACEFUL.
WE WILL HAVE THE ABILITY TO
DETERMINE QUICKLY IF IT IS NOT.
AND THEN TAKE PROPER RESPONSES.
>> Ifill: LET'S WALK THROUGH
SOME OF THE OUTSTANDING ISSUES.
THEY ARE NOT MINOR ONES.
FOR INSTANCE, IRAN IS SECRETLY
STILL TRYING TO WORK ON ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
ANY SENSE OF THAT?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL,
TRANSPARENCY AND VERIFICATION IS
THE
THEY MAKE THEM.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO MEMBERS OF
THE CONGRESS AT THIS POINT.
>> THE BEST OFFENSE WE HAVE IF
YOU'D LIKE IS A REALLY GOOD
DEAL.
AND WE HAVE SPENT A LOT OF TIME
EXPLAINING THE TECHNICAL
DIMENSIONS THAT WERE AGREED
UPON.
I THINK THERE'S BEEN GENERAL
SURPRISE IN A PLEASANT SENSE
FROM CONGRESS AND FROM OTHERS
THAT THE SPECIFICITY OF WHAT WE
MANAGE TO NEGOTIATE UP TO LAZAN,
STILL SOME TOUGH ISSUES, SAMIONS
ARE RELIEVED IN RETURN FOR IRAN
MEETINGS ITS OBLIGATIONS OF
NUCLEAR PARAMETERS.
TO BE HONEST THAT'S PART OF WHAT
WE STILL HAVE TO NAIL DOWN OVER
THE NEXT TWO WEEKS.
>> Ifill: ALSO THE IAEA PUT
OUT A REPORT SAYING IRAN STOCK
PILES NUCLEAR WEAPONS IS
INCREASING NOT DECREASING.
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE IT'S AIMED
AT RESTORING THE FAITH TO THE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO DON'T
THINK THIS IS A CREDIBLE DEAL.
>> I THINK WE'VE EXPLAINED THAT
COMPLETELY AND FRANKLY THERE'S
NO NEW THERE IS.
THE IAEA HAS CONFIRMED THAT IRAN
HAS MET ALL OF ITS OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THIS TEMPORARY AGREEMENT.
THE FACT IS THAT WE FULLY EXPECT
THAT ASSUMING WE REACH AN
AGREEMENT WHEN IT COMES INTO
EFFECT, THEY WILL HAVE THE ORDER
OF 12,000 KILOGRAMS OF ENRICHED
YOU'LYOU'LLYOU'RE RAIN ANNUAURA.
THEY MUST BRING THAT DOWN.
>> Ifill: HOW DO THEY DO
THAT, ONE WAY IS TO DILUTE THE
URANIUM WITH NEUTRAL OR DEPLETED
URANIUM OR THE SIMPLER WAY IS
OUT OF THE COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: YOU'RE A PHYSICIST
NOT A POLITICIAN.
YOU PLAY POLITICS ON TV
SOMETIMES.
WHAT EXACTLY HAS TO HAPPEN TO
SEPARATE THE POLITICAL FROM THE
TECHNICAL IN A VERY COMPLICATED
ELECTIVES.
AS YOU WELL KNOW DOMESTICALLY
AND INTERNATIONALLY THE POLITICS
COULD SINK IT AS MUCH AS THE
TECHNOLOGY.
>> FIRST OF ALL THERE ARE SOME
VERY HIGH LEVEL ISSUES WHICH
DEPENDS ON THE RESOLVE.
FOR EXAMPLE THE DECISION TO SEEK
AN AGREEMENT THAT SPECIFICALLY
ADDRESSES THE NUCLEAR WEAPON
ISSUE.
SO SOME HAVE TALKED ABOUT THAT
AS A STRATEGY BUT WE ARE
COMMITTED TO THAT.
WE HAVE WORKED SEAMLESSLY TO
WEAVE TOGETHER THE TECHNICAL AND
GEO POLITICAL ISSUES.
THAT WILL BE THE ART THAT WE
WILL HAVE TO PERFECT IN THE NEXT
COUPLE WEEKS.
>> Ifill: I'LL SAY.
SECRETARY KERRY AS FAR AS YOU
KNOW WILL BE WELL ENOUGH TO
TRAVEL TO VIENNA NEXT WEEK.
>> YES.
WE HAD BUSINESS LAST SATURDAY
AND IN BOSTON AND HE'S LOOKING
WELL.
HE'S BACK IN DC NOW AND HE'S
READY TO GO.
>> Ifill: SECRETARY OF
ENERGY, ERNEST MONIZ, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> Wooduff: RACE RELATIONS
RETURN TO THE FOREFRONT AFTER
DEADLY VIOLENCE IN SOUTH
CAROLINA.
THE HEAD OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH
TAKES A STANCE ON CLIMATE
CHANGE.
AND TWO MORE CANDIDATES LEAP
INTO THE RACE FOR 2016.
FOR ALL THIS AND MORE, WE TURN
TO THE ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND
BROOKS, THAT'S SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST MARK SHIELDS AND NEW
YORK TIMES COLUMNIST DAVID
BROOKS.
SO ANOTHER TERRIBLE RACE-RELATED
STORY TO TALK ABOUT, THIS
HORRIBLE SHOOTING IN CHARLESTON
SOUTH CAROLINA, DAVID WHERE A
YOUNG WHITE MAN KILLS NINE BLACK
CHURCHGOERS.
WHAT ARE WE LEFT WITH?
I MEAN, IS THIS AN ISOLATED,
SHOULD WE THINK OF THIS AS AN
ISOLATED INCIDENT, RACIST YOUNG
MEN OR DOES THE WHOLE COUNTRY
NEED TO DO SOME SOUL SEARCHING.
>> FIRST, WE HAVE AN UP LIFTING
PART OF THE TERRIBLE STORY IS
WHAT HAPPENED TODAY IN THE
COURTROOM.
THE FAMILIES FORGIVING THE YOUNG
MAN.
SEARCH HEARTFELT WAY.
THAT IS BELIEVING THE FAITH,
WALKING THE WALK.
WE HAVE A SOCIETY AND CERTAINLY
POLITICS FILLED WITH PEOPLE WHO
ARE UNFORGIVING EACH OTHER,
FILLED WITH VENGEANCE.
THAT'S AN UP LIFTING MOMENT
WHICH ISN'T NEGATIVE.
THE HORROR, I'M A LITTLE
CONFUSED ABOUT HOW MUCH TO
GENERALIZE.
WE HAVE A RACE PROBLEM IN THIS
COUNTRY, THAT IS SO OBVIOUS.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE AN ANGRY
SOLITARY YOUNG MAN PROBLEM.
I'M NOT SURE A LOT OF THE ANGRY
SOLITARY YOUNG MEN ARE DIRECTLY
CONNECTED.
THEY ARE OBVIOUSLY LOOSELY
CONNECTED TO THE HISTORY OF RACE
IN THIS COUNTRY.
BUT THEY ARE AL REA SOLITARY
YOUNG MEN LOOKING FOR A HATEFUL
AND VICIOUS IDEALOGIES.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE A NAZI
PROBLEM IN THIS COUNTRY.
THEY ARE SOLITARY AND HATE
MONGERS.
THE GUY SITS IN A BIBLE STUDY
FOR AN HOUR AND STARTS SHOOTING
THEM.
THAT'S BEYOND IMAGINATION.
AND SO IT'S OBVIOUSLY CONNECTED
ABOUT I'M A LITTLE WORRIED THE
TWO CAUSATIONS THAT ARE LINKED
BETWEEN OUR GENERAL RACE PROBLEM
AND THIS SPECIFIC COMPLETELY
BIZARRE AND COMPLETELY EVIL.
>> Woodruff: HOW ARE YOU
SEEING IT.
>> I WANT TO AGREE WITH WHAT
DAVID SAID ABOUT THE PEOPLE IN
THE COURTROOM SAYING MAY GOD
HAVE MERCY ON YOU, MAY GOD
FORGIVE YOU.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO DO PRACTICE
THEIR FAITH AND IT'S A LOT MORE
THAN PREACHING.
WHAT HIT ME, JUDY, WAS PRESIDENT
OBAMA IN HIS GREATEST AND
ELOQUENT MOMENTS IN THE TIMES OF
RISECS AND STRATEGY AND SORT OF
PUTINGT THINGS IN PERSPECTIVE,
HOW YESTERDAY MAKING THE
ANNOUNCEMENT, DISPAIRT DISPIRITD
SENSE OF RESIGNATION.
AFTER THE BIRMINGHAM CHURCH IN
1963 WHEN THEY WERE BLOWN UP,
THERE WAS A MOMENT IN THE
COUNTRY, YOU COULD FEEL IT, WAS
MOVED ON CIVIL RIGHTS.
THE PASSAGE OF THE 1964 ACT WAS
ALMOST ASSURED THAT A TERRIBLE
TERRIBLE INHUMAN ACT.
THAT WAS A SSEEN WE'RE MOVING IN
THE DIRECTION.
AFTER NEW TOWN AND AFTER THE
SLAUGHTER OF THE NNT INNOCENCE E
AND THE TEACHERS -- INNOCENTS
THERE AND THE TEACHERS USING
UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECKS.
>> Woodruff: ON GUNS.
>> ON GUNS AND NOTHING HAPPENED.
IT'S A SENSE OF HOW MANY MORE,
THE ENORMITY OF IT, WHAT'S IT
GOING TO TAKE.
SO I JUST THINK THERE IS, SOME
OF THE SADNESS.
FOR HIM TO SIT, THIS ALLEGED
KILLER, TO SIT THERE FOR AN HOUR
WHILE THESE PEOPLE WELCOME HIM
INTO THEIR CHURCH INTO BIBLE
STUDY AND THEN TO DO IT, I MEAN
IT'S BEYOND COMPREHENSION.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEYOND ANY
WORDS.
DAVID, IS THIS A MOMENT WHEN WE
LOOK FOR SOMETHING TO HAPPEN ON
GUNS?
THERE WAS A LOT OF DEBATE TODAY
ABOUT THE CONFEDERATE FLAG ABOUT
WHETHER THE RULES ARE TOO LOOSE,
ABOUT WHERE THEY CAN BE
DISPLAYED.
>> I'M TAKING FOR TAKING DOWN
THE CONFEDERATE FLAG.
THERE'S A GROUP OF PEOPLE, THAT
SHOULD BE ENOUGH.
WE ARE CITIZENS TO EACH OTHER
AND WE DO NOT THINGS THAT OFFEND
OTHER PEOPLE IN SYM BALLIC WAYS.
AS FOR GUNS I PERSONALLY SUPPORT
MOST OF THE LEGISLATION.
I'M SUBSEQUENT CULL ANYTHING
WILL HAPPEN BECAUSE OF THE PAST
HISTORY.
WE HAVE A LOT OF GROUPS IN OUR
SOCIETY AND GROUPS VETO
LEGISLATION.
I DOUBT THE EFFICACY OF IT.
THERE ARE HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF GUNS IN THIS COUNTRY.
HOW TO GET RID OF THEM IS A
QUESTION FOR ME.
I THINK SOMETHING NEEDS TO BE
DONE AS NEIGHBORS IN THESE
COMMUNITIES TO BE MORE ALERT TO
THESE SOLITARY YOUNG MEN.
THERE ARE A CERTAIN NUMBER OF
YOUNG MEN IN THEIR TEENS,
DRIFTING OUT OF SOCIETY AND
SOMEBODY MUST BE NOTICING THEM.
IT'S UP TO US AS FAMILY MEMBERS
AND NEIGHBORS TO SAY THAT'S
POTENTIAL PROBLEM.
THIS IS A KID SENDING OUT
SIGNALS WITH AN ARREST AT THE
MALL AND SOME OTHER THINGS HE
WAS DOING, BIZARRE BEHAVIOR,
SORT OF STALKING BEHAVIOR, THE
PHOTOGRAPH ON FACEBOOK WITH THE
FLAG.
THAT'S SORT OF UP TO ALL OF US
TO BE ALERT.
>> Woodruff: KEEPING AN EYE
ON THE PEOPLE AROUND US.
>> JUDY, AS FAR AS THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG, FIRST OF ALL
THE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
LINDSAY GRAHAM, AND I DON'T MEAN
TO HURT HIS POTENTIAL K35EU7B --
CAMPAIGN BUT HE SAID THERE ARE
AT LEAST A MILLION AMERICANS
WITH DETERMINED AND ADJUDICATED
MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS WHO
AREN'T EVEN IN THE REGISTRY FOR
GUNS.
HE MADE THE POINT THAT
BACKGROUND CHECKS ARE TO HIS
CREDIT.
I DON'T KNOW BECAUSE THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG, ITWAS A
DEBATED ISSUE IN 2014 IN THE
GUBERNATORIAL RACE IN SOUTH
CAROLINA, NIKE HALEY WAS KEEPING
IT, SHE WON.
THEY STARTED TAKING IT DOWN CAN,
HE LOST, I DON'T WANT TO SAY
IT'S A RESOLVE ISSUE BUT GONE UP
IN 1962 WHICH WAS RIGHT IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT
WHEN AN ALL WHITE LEGISLATURE
DEEMED IT BE ELEVATED.
I DON'T, I DON'T KNOW ANY ACTION
THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN ON THAT.
>> Woodruff: YOU BOTH HAVE
TOUCHED ON 2016, TURNING THE
CORNER.
WE HAD TWO NEW CANDIDATES
OFFICIALLY JUMP IN THE RACE THIS
WEEK.
JEB BUSH, DONALD TRUMP, TWO VERY
DIFFERENT PEOPLE, DAVID.
WHAT DO WE MAKE OF BOTH OF THEM.
WHERE DOES THIS LEAVE THE
CAMPAIGN IN THE REPUBLIC FIELD.
>> IT'S NOT A NECESSARY SIGN OF
GOOD CANDIDATES.
THE BUSH QUESTION IS TO ME A
GREAT MYSTERY.
HE'S ON THE NAME BOOKING, NAME
RECOGNITION BUT NOT A LOT OF SO
FAR.
WHAT I KNOW ABOUT GOVERNOR BUSH
HE WOULD REALLY LOVE AND ENJOY
THE ACTIONS OF BEING SPREAD.
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS.
HE'S AN ADMINISTRATOR AND I
THINK IN THE CAMPAIGN OPENING,
HE BROADCAST THOSE SKILLS WHICH
HE HAS.
HE WOULD BE A GOOD
ADMINISTRATOR.
WHETHER HE GOOD CAMPAIGNER OR
RALLY THE COUNTRY THAT'S REALLY
SOMETHING TO BE SEEN.
I THINK THE OPENING IS GOOD BUT
IT'S REMARKABLE HE'S NOT IN THE
CONDITION HE SHOULD BE IN GIVEN
THE ADVANTAGE HE HAS ESPECIALLY
IN PLACES LIKE IOWA AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
GOVERNOR BUSH.
>> JEB BUSH, EVERYON EVERYONE WY
MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT THEY WANT
IT TO BE A PAGEANT.
THE PARCE PASTOR WHO ENDORSED HM
PERSONALLY, THE SPANISH SPEAKING
PEOPLE WHO ENDORSED HIM KNEW HIM
PERSONALLY.
THE WOMAN WITH A DISABLED CHILD
SPOKE ON PERSONAL TERMS OF WHAT
HE HAD DONE.
I MEAN HE SPOKE IN SPANISH.
I MEAN, THERE WAS A SENSE OF
GENUINENESS.
HE EXTENDED, I THOUGHT VERY
FORMATIVELY.
HE MUSTLED OUT MITT ROMNEY WHO
WAS THINKING ABOUT GETTING IN BY
PREEMPTING SUPPORT AND FINANCIAL
SUPPORT AND POLITICAL SUPPORT.
AND THEY DIDN'T KNOW WHO HE WAS
FOR SURE.
HE CERTAINLY HANG HANDLE HAS NOE
FAMILY QUESTIONS OR RACK
QUESTIONS AS -- IRAQ QUESTIONS
AS WELL.
BUT WHETHER IN FACT THE
CHEMISTRY IS THERE, WHETHER HE
CONNECTS WITH PEOPLE AND HE'S
GOT A HIGH HIGH UNFAVORABLE IN
PLACES LIKE IOWA, AMONG REPUBLIC
VOTERS.
>> Woodruff: UNFAVORABLE.
>> YES.
AND THE OTHER FELLOW, DONALD
TRUMP, IF HE TOOK THE FIRST
PERSON PRONOUN OUT OF HIS
ANNOUNCEMENT IT WOULD HAVE
LASTED FOUR MINUTES.
IT WAS GREAT TESTIMONY TO THE
UNIMPORTANCE OF HUMILITY IN
NATIONAL POLITICS.
>> I THINK THE FIELD IS SO RICH
HE'S GOING TO BE SQUEEZED OUT.
I THINK HE WILL BE A SIDE SHOW
AND BARELY NOTICED.
>> Woodruff: SOMETHING WE DID
NOTICE THIS WEEK WAS THE POPE
AND HE ESSENTIALLY CAME IN DAVID
WITH AN UNPRECEDENTED STATEMENT
ENCYCLICAL THEY CALL IT ON THE
ENVIRONMENT, VERY POWERFUL
STATEMENT ON THE HUMORAL IN
CAUSING CLIMATE CHANGE AND
SAYING THE RICH NATION IN
PARTICULAR HAS THE
RESPONSIBILITY TO DO SOMETHING.
IS THIS GOING TO CHANGE THE
DEBATE?
IS IT GOING TO CHANGE MINDS,
CHANGE POLICY, CHANGEPOLITICIAN.
>> I DOUBT IT.
I PERSONALLY THOUGHT IT WAS
BEAUTIFUL, THEOLOGICALLY
BEAUTIFUL, HOW WE'RE ALL
CONNECTED TO EACH OTHER.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL EXPRESSION OF
CATHOLIC THEOLOGY AND A
BEAUTIFUL EXPRESSION FOR ALL OF
US.
IT ALSO REMINDED ME THE CATHICOL
CHURCH IS AMAZINGLY CONSISTENT
ON ABORTION, ON THE DEATH
PENALTY ON THE ENVIRONMENT.
VALUING THE LIFE, THE CHURCH IS
SO KIND ON THIS EMPHASIS BUT OUR
PARTIES ARE SORT OF INCONSISTENT
ON THESE DIFFERENT ISSUES.
I THOUGHT IT MADE ME FEEL
ENVIRONMENTAL BECAUSE HE
CONNECTED OUR ROLE IN THE COSMOS
AND OUR ROLE IN NATURE IN A VERY
BEAUTIFUL WAY.
I WOULD HAVE DIFFERENT EMPHASIS
THAN HE DID ON THE POLICY STUFF
TO THE CHURCH TO MY MIND IS
CAPITALISM TOO MUCH, A FORCE
THAT'S LISTED 300 MILLION PEOPLE
OUT OF OFFER A POVERTY.
I THINK HE UNDER VALUES THAT BUT
NONETHELESS THE THEOLOGY WAS
BALLBEAUTIFUL, THE POLICY WAS TO
LEFT WING.
>> I CONFESS I'M A CRITICAL FAN
OF POPE FRANCIS.
HE APPROACHES EVERY SINGLE
PROBLEM THE SAME WAY.
FROM THE BOTTOM UP.
HE WAS NOT A DIPLOMAT, HE WAS
NOT A CHURCH TECHNOCRAT, HE WAS
A PASTOR.
IN BOO BUENOS AIRES.
EVERYBODY WHO VISITED HIM SAID
THE SAME THING, HE WOULD TAKE
YOU TO THE SLUMS.
HE'S SEEN THE WORLD WHETHER.
WHEN IT COMES TO THE
ENVIRONMENT, IF YOU GOT A
PRIVATE PLANE, YOU CAN GET TO
CLEAN AIR.
YOU CAN GET TO ASPEN, COLORADO.
YOU CAN GET TO MARTHA'S
VINEYARD.
YOU CAN GET TO CLEAN WATER.
BUT THE POOR PEOPLE, THE FACT OF
OUR CAPITALISM, THE POOR PEOPLE
DON'T HAVE AN OPTION.
THEY'RE THE ONES WHO CONTRIBUTE
THE LEAST TO THE POLLIONUT AND
SUFFER THE MOST.
I JUST THOUGHT WHAT HE
FORMULATED IN DEFENSE OF THE
MOWERS ECONOMICALLY IN A DEFENSE
LOTION PLANET WHERE THERE IS A
COMMON GOOD THAT ALL OF US HAVE
A RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Woodruff: JUST 20 SECONDS.
DO YOU SEE A CHANGING MIND, DO
YOU SEE IT CHANGING THE REPUBLIC
PARTY POSITION ON THIS ISSUE.
>> HE IS THE MOST POPULAR PERSON
IN THE WORLD.
EVERY POLITICIAN WANTS TO
ASSOCIATE WITH HIM.
HE'S GOING TO MAKE IT
UNCOMFORTABLE FOR BOTH SIDES.
BUT I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
IMPOSSIBLE TO IGNORE IT AS AN
ISSUE AS WELL AS THE
ENVIRONMENT.
>> BRAZIL AND OTHER NATIONS MAY
BE AWE OF COURSED.
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS,
DAVID BROOKS, THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: NOW, THE CONCLUSION
TO OUR SERIES ON CUBA.
ALL WEEK LONG, WE'VE SHOWED YOU
WAYS IN WHICH THAT COUNTRY IS
DEALING WITH SIGNIFICANT SHIFTS
IN BUSINESS, ARTS, CULTURE AND
SOCIETY.
TONIGHT, JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS
ABOUT AN INDUSTRY WHERE CUBA HAS
BEEN A LEADER, ORGANIC FARMING.
ITS GROWTH WAS BORN OF
NECESTY.SI
BUT NOW ITS APPROACH IS
ATTRACTING ATTENTION IN THE U.S.
AND OTHER PLACES.
IT'S PART OF OUR STORIES ON "THE
CUBAN EVOLUTION."
>> Brown: IN CUBA, AND NOW
BEYOND, MIGUEL SALSINEZ IS
RECOGNIZED AS A PIONEER OF
ORGANIC FARMING.
>> MOLINGA VELANAT.
>> Brown: HE'S A FOUNDER OF
VIVERO ALAMAR FARM, 27 ACRES ON
HAVANA'S OUTSKIRTS.
A SMALL PARCEL OF LAND, BUT ONE
THAT PRODUCES FOOD FOR 80,000
RESIDENTS IN THE SURROUNDING
COMMUNITY.
WHEN SALSINEZ TALKS OF A
"REVOLUTION," IT'S NOT THE ONE
FIDEL CASTRO LED IN THE 1950S.
>> (translated): THE
COUNTRY
COUNTRY HAS HAD A GREEN
REVOLUTION IN
HAS HAD A GREEN REVOLUTION IN
FARMING SINCE THE USE OF
CHEMICAL FERTILIZERS AND
CHEMICAL PESTICIDES.
AT ALAMAR, OUR FOOD PRODUCTION
IS WITHOUT CHEMICALS ENTIRELY.
>> Brown: IN FACT, THIS IS ONE
OF SOME 10,000 URBAN ORGANIC
FARMS IN CUBA.
IT'S PART OF A WELL-ORGANIZED
SYSTEM HERE, THAT'S GAINED
ATTENTION AS A MODEL FOR OTHER
PARTS OF THE WORLD.
AND DAILY ATTRACTS EXPERTS AND
FOODIES, LIKE THIS GROUP OF
AMERICANS ON A RECENT TOUR.
>> THIS IS LIKE A SCHOOL.
PEOPLE FROM OTHER COUNTRIES THAT
COME TO CUBA, THEY WANT TO LEARN
ABOUT CUBA AGRICULTURE.
THEY HAVE HAD STUDENTS FOR 15
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES.
>> Brown: BUT CUBA'S ROLE AS A
LEADER IN ORGANIC FARMING DIDN'T
COME FROM A CONCERN OVER ITS
CARBON FOOTPRINT, OR A DESIRE TO
RID CHEMICALS FROM EVERYDAY
FOOD.
CUBA STOPPED USING CHEMICALS
BECAUSE THE CHEMICALS
DISAPPEARED.
>> THE PEOPLE IN CUBA ARE LIVING
IN A CRISIS.
>> Brown: IT BEGAN IN 1991, WHAT
THE GOVERNMENT EUPHEMISTICALLY
CALLED THE "SPECIAL PERIOD" WHEN
THE SOVIET UNION COLLAPSED AND
CUBA LOST ITS MAJOR SUPPLIER OF
FUEL, FERTILIZER AND FOOD.
>> PEOPLE ARE JUST FED UP WITH
PERIOD SPECIAL.
>> Brown: THIS 1993 DOCUMENTARY
CAPTURED THE PAIN AND CHAOS OF
THOSE YEARS, WHEN IT'S
ESTIMATED, CUBANS LOST AN
AVERAGE OF 10-15 POUNDS.
>> PEOPLE CUE IN LINE FOR HOURS
AT A TIME FOR A FEW BASIC
ESSENTIALS, THESE PEOPLE WERE
WAITING FOR A FEW PIECES OF
BREAD.
>> IT WAS A MATTER OF NECESSITY,
IT WAS A MATTER OF URGENCY.
IT WAS A HUGE CHALLENGE SINCE WE
WERE IMPORTING MORE THAN 80% OF
THE FOOD CONSUMED BY CUBANS.
WE NEEDED TO PRODUCE OUR OWN
FOOD.
>> Brown: FARMERS WERE WITHOUT
FERTILIZERS, PESTICIDES, OR FUEL
FOR TRACTORS.
IN AN EFFORT TO STAVE OFF
HUNGER, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
GAVE STATE-OWNED FARMLAND TO
ANYONE WHO PROMISED TO GROW
FOOD.
VIVERO ALAMAR WAS CREATED BY
PEOPLE WHO LIVED IN THE
SURROUNDING COMMUNITY.
MANYELL WREMEMBER THE SPECIAL
PERIOD.
PERIOD. >> (translated
): I AM 56 YEARS
>> (translated): I AM
56 YEARS OLD, WE HAD A ROUGH
PERIOD HERE
OLD, WE HAD A ROUGH PERIOD HERE
IN THE 90'S.
WE HAD NEEDS, WE WERE HUNGRY,
BUT NOT DYING OF HUNGER.
>> Brown: JASON REIS, WHO HAS AN
ORGANIC FARM IN BROOKLYN, NEW
YORK, HELPED LEAD THE TOUR WE
JOINED.
>> SO THE OLDER PEOPLE TAUGHT
THE YOUNGER PEOPLE IN THE 90'S
HOW TO USE THE TRADITIONAL WAYS
OF GROWING FOOD WHEN THEIR WAS
NO ACCESS TO CHEMICALS.
OU SEE WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THIS PLACE?
>> I SEE A GREAT EXAMPLE OF
PERMACULTURE, AND ORGANIC
FARMING PRACTICES, THEY'RE USING
A LOT OF INTERPLANTING, AND A
LOT OF NATURAL INSECTICIDES,
THEY'RE USING MARIGOLDS TO
ATTRACT THE POLLINATORS AND IT'S
NOT A MONOCULTURE, NOT A FIELD
OF SOY OR CORN LIKE WE'D SEE IN
THE U.S.
>> THAT IS FULL OF WORMS.
>> Brown: BEDS OF WORMS ARE BRED
TO BREAK DOWN MANURE INTO
NUTRIENT RICH COMPOST.
JUAN ANDRES RODRIGUEZ HAS WORKED
HERE FOR NINE YEARS.
HERE FOR NINE YEARS. >> (
translated): IT'S VERY
>> (translated):
IT'S VERY HARD WORK.
HARD WORK.
>> Brown: THE VEGETABLES AND
FRUITS ARE SOLD ON THE PREMISES,
TO PEOPLE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> Brown: IS IT POSSIBLE TO FEED
THE WHOLE CITY OF HAVANA?
>> IT WOULD BE A DREAM TO SAY
THAT YOU CAN DO THAT, BECAUSE IT
REQUIRES A LOT OF RESOURCES THAT
ARE NOT AVAILABLE RIGHT NOW, BUT
WHAT WE CAN SAY IS THAT WE HAVE
IMPROVED THE DIET OF CUBANS, AND
THE HEALTHY DIET OF CUBANS,
THERE'S A LOT OF FIBER, AND A
LOT OF GOOD NUTRIENTS THAT WE
DIDN'T HAVE BEFORE.
>> I NEED GREEN COCONUT MILK FOR
MY MEAL TONIGHT.
>> Brown: INDEED, ONE MEMBER OF
THE TOUR OF AMERICAN FOODIES WAS
JAMIE DEROSSA, A WELL-KNOWN
MIAMI CHEF.
>> WE TOOK THE LOBSTER WE
POACHED IT WITH RUM, COCONUT,
LIME, AND GUAVA.
>> Brown: AND HE TOLD ME LATER
HE WAS IMPRESSED BY WHAT HE'D
SEEN.
>> IT'S INTERESTING TO SEE HOW A
COUNTRY WITH LESS RESOURCES THAN
WE HAVE, DOING THE VERY SAME
FARMING WE ARE JUST NOW BECOMING
GREAT AT
THE LETTUCES WERE GREAT, THE
HERBS WERE GREAT TO SEE A
GREENHOUSE GROWING HEIRLOOM
TOMATOES IS FANTASTIC, I MEAN IT
REALLY WAS.
>> Brown: BUT QUESTIONS LOOM, AS
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE
U.S. AND CUBA IMPROVE, AND
AMERICAN AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
COMPANIES LOOK FOR COMMERCIAL
OPPORTUNITIES ON THE ISLAND.
>> I WAS JUST TALKING TO OUR
GUIDE AT THE FARM HERE, AND SHE
SAYS THAT GENETICALLY MODIFIED
ORGANISMS ARE OUTLAWED IN CUBA,
THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED, HOWEVER
CHEMICALS MAY BE ALLOWED, AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF
THE AMERICAN AGRICULTURE
COMPANIES GET IN HERE, AND ARE
ABLE TO SELL THEIR PRODUCTS, IF
IT'S GOING TO CONTINUE LIKE THIS
ORGANIC MODEL, OR IF IT'S GOING
TO LOOK A LOT MORE LIKE WHAT WE
SEE IN THE U.S.
I REALLY DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN.
>> Brown: MIGUEL SALSINEZ SAYS
FARMING HERE WILL CHANGE,
BUT HE HOPES THE FOCUS ON
ORGANIC METHODS CONTINUES.
ORGANIC METHODS CONTINUES. >> (
translated): THE USE OF
>> (translated): THE
USE OF CHEMICALS IS INEVITABLE.
CHEMICALS IS INEVITABLE.
THE CHEMISTS ARE GOING TO
RETURN.
WHAT WE HAVE TO KNOW IS TO WHAT
EXTENT, AND BE CONSCIOUS THAT
CHEMICALS ARE NOT A GOOD THING,
USE THEM AS LITTLE AS POSSIBLE,
AND TRY TO CONTINUE TO EMPHASIZE
ORGANIC AGRICULTURE.
>> Brown: FROM ALAMAR, CUBA, I'M
JEFFREY BROWN FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Wooduff: CHEF JAMIE DEROSA
SHARED ONE OF THE RECIPES HE
PREPARED THAT EVENING AT THE
FOODIE EVENT, LOBSTER CEVICHE
WITH GUAVA, AND YOU CAN FIND
THAT ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALSO THERE, CATCH UP ON ALL OF
OUR CUBA REPORTS FROM THIS WEEK,
INCLUDING PHOTO GALLERIES AND A
TRAVEL GUIDE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
FINALLY, OUR "NEWSHOUR SHARES"
OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, HOW DO
YOU FIND MEANINGFUL MOMENTS WITH
AN AGING PARENT BEFORE IT'S TOO
LATE?
IT'S A QUESTION JACK OHMAN
PONDERS IN HIS LATEST CARTOON IN
THE SERIES "THE CARE PACKAGE,"
THAT CHRONICLES THE FINAL YEARS
HE SPENT TAKING CARE OF HIS OWN
DAD.
YOU CAN FIND THAT, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: HATE CRIMES, DRONE
STRIKES, TRADE POLICY, AND
PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS.
DEBATES OVER LIFE, DEATH, AND
PARTISANSHIP.
WE'LL TACKLE ALL THAT TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
>> Wooduff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, IN ISRAEL, A
NEW WAVE OF ARAB LAWMAKERS
PLEDGE TO IMPROVE THE SOCIAL AND
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OF ISRAEL'S
ARAB MINORITY.
MINORITY GROUP IN
THE COUNTRY, THEY HAVE FEW
LEADERSHIP ROLE IN THE COUNTRY'S
SOCIAL AND GOVERNMENT
INSTITUTIONS AND ECONOMICALLY
THEY TRAIL FAR BEHIND THE JEWISH
MAJORITY.
NEARLY HALF OF I REAL' ISRAEL'SS
LIVE IN POVERTY.
IT'SING GROWING.
>> WITH THE ACTION LAW, BUT
STILL THE GAPS BETWEEN JEWS AND
ARABS IS LARGE.
>> BUT TODAY AFTER ARAB
POLITICAL PARTY JOINED FORCES
AND RUN 13 OF THE ISRAEL
PARLIAMENTS, 120 SEATS, A NEW
GENERATION OF ARAB RULE MAKERS
WANTS TO CHANGE THINGS.
>> Wooduff: THAT'S TOMORROW
GHTNI ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.